## exercise 4.19

I'm with Alyssa.

Ben's view is most natural from a sequential execution perspective, but does not consider scope.Let an outer scope affect an inner scope, or let an inner scope override an outer scope.Problems may arise that are difficult to detect.According to Ben, the following statement cannot be executed

``` Scheme
(define (f x)
  (define b (+ a x))
  (define a 5)
  (+ a b))
(f 10)
```

But once you define a in the outer layer, you can execute it successfully.This is in the following two statements

``` Scheme
(define b (+ a x))
(+ a b)
```
You're in the same scope, but you're looking at the exact a variable differently.The inner a covers the outer a. They are in the same scope, use the same match, but have different meanings, which can inadvertently create some difficult to find problems.

From Eva's point of view.In the same scope, the order of define is arbitrary. The define statements can be in no order.However, this method is difficult to implement and requires automatic analysis of the interdependence of define statements.In addition, when we look at the code, we tend to go from top to bottom, and sequential statements are easier to understand.In Eva's point of view, the subsequent define statement would affect the result of the previous statement, which is not consistent with the sequential execution of code, which is intuitive.It's easier to understand sequence, harder to understand simultaneity.

Alyssa's point is really the text approach, taking into account both scope and sequential execution.It follows the following rules.

1. In the same scope, variables with the same symbol have the same meaning and access the same variable.

2. The code is executed sequentially if it complies with Rule 1.

Such rules are relatively easy to understand and implement.According to Alyssa, the code in the exercises will make errors, forcing the programmer to write better code.

------

The scheme for defining Eva, you can define in no order, it's exactly the same time.To achieve this conceptual simultaneity (but the interpreter actually executes sequentially), you need to adjust the order of define statements.Put all the define at the front of the scope.In addition, it is necessary to analyze the dependency relationships of define statements to form a dependency graph, so that the smaller the dependency, the higher the dependency.This dependency analysis is a bit cumbersome, similar to running the interpreter up front once.
