## exercise 4.23

In the version implemented by Alyssa, each expression in the sequence is parsed, but the sequence itself is not parsed, and the computation requires a dynamic loop of the sequence itself.

The version given in the text, the expressions in the sequence are analyzed, and the sequence itself is analyzed.When you compute the sequence, you don't need a loop, you compute the sequence and that loop is optimized.

That may not be clear enough.Let me give you some examples.

### a) A sequence has only one expression

Suppose the sequence has only one simplest expression

``` Scheme
'Hello
```

The expression itself, in both versions, is analyzed as

``` Scheme
(lambda (env) 'Hello)
```

The Alyssa implementation, after parsing the sequence, returns the equivalent of

``` Scheme
(lambda (env) (execute-sequence (list
                                  (lambda (env) 'Hello)
                                  ) 
                                env))
```

As you can see, `execute-sequence` is passed into the list of expressions after analysis, and evaluating `execute-sequence` requires the loop list itself.

For the version implemented in the text, the result of the analysis sequence is

``` Scheme
(lambda (env) 'Hello)
```
As you can see, the expression itself in the sequence is returned directly, without going through any loops.

### b) The sequence has two expressions

Let's say the sequence has two expressions

``` Scheme
'Hello
'World
```

The expression itself, in both versions, is analyzed as

``` Scheme
(lambda (env) 'Hello)
(lambda (env) 'World)
```

The Alyssa implementation, after parsing the sequence, returns the equivalent of

``` Scheme
(lambda (env) (execute-sequence (list
                                  (lambda (env) 'Hello)
                                  (lambda (env) 'World)
                                  ) 
                                env))
```

ot much different from an expression,`execute-sequence` requires a circular list.

The version implemented in the text, after parsing the sequence, concatenates the parsed expressions.return

``` Scheme
(lambda (env)
  ((lambda (env) 'Hello) env)
  ((lambda (env) 'World) env))
```

### c) Sequences have more expressions

``` Scheme
'Hello
'World
'Hello
'World
```
The version of Alyssa implemented, even with more expressions, is pretty much the same as before.`execute-sequence` requires a circular list.

While the text version, after the chaining expression, the analysis result is equivalent

``` Scheme
(lambda (env)
  ((lambda (env)
     ((lambda (env)
        ((lambda (env) 'Hello) env)
        ((lambda (env) 'World) env)) env)
     ((lambda (env) 'Hello) env)) env)
  ((lambda (env) 'World) env))
```  

The version of the body, no matter how many expressions there are, will chain the parsed expressions.The analysis result is completely no loop, direct call, the loop expression optimization away.


