## exercise 4.30

### a)

When evaluating `eval-sequence` , each expression of a sequence is `eval`. And in the following statement

``` Scheme
(proc (car items)
```

Is a procedure call that applies `actual-value` to proc to force the evaluation of proc, in this case the lambda expression.

The reason for applying `actual-value`  instead of  `eval`to proc is in [exercise 4.28](./4.28.md)。

Evaluating the lambda triggers the `eval-sequence` again. `newline` and `display` are basic system procedures.When evaluating the basic procedure of `display`, each parameter will be evaluated by `actual-value`, and`actual-value` will call `force-it`to get the real value of x.
 
### b)

For the original `eval-sequence, the result of the two expressions is as follows

``` Scheme
(p1 1)  ;; (1 2)
(p2 1)  ;; 1
```

The result of  `eval-sequence`modified according to Cy's suggestion is as follows

``` Scheme
(p1 1)  ;; (1 2)
(p2 1)  ;; (1 2)
```

The difference between the two results lies in the handling of the e statement in p2.

``` Scheme
(define (p2 x)
  (define (p e)
    e	; It's done differently here
    x)
  (p (set! x (cons x '(2)))))
```

e corresponds to  `(set! x (cons x '(2)))` statement is deferred evaluated. This e has its own side effects.

For the original `eval-sequence`, e is called eval, which corresponds to a thunk and is not really evaluated.So no side effects are triggered to change x, so x is still 1.

In the `eval-sequence`modified by Cy's suggestion, e will be called `actual-value`for real evaluation.Triggers the side effect and modifies x, so the result of x is `(cons 1 '(2))`. This is the list  `(1 2)`。

### c)

s explained by a), the proc argument passed in `for-each` serves as a procedure call.

``` Scheme
(proc (car items)
```

For procedure calls, proc itself is used with `actual-value`, instead of applying `eval`.The e expression, like b), only uses `eval`。

It is this difference that makes the Cy modification the same for an instance like `for-each` in a).

The Cy modification explicitly evaluates the entire expression `(proc (car items)` .The original implementation, on the other hand, evaluates proc (corresponding to the lambda passed in) with `actual-value`.Both trigger the implementation inside the lambda to evaluate.

### d)

I prefer the original `eval-sequence` implementation.

Cy is a little radical in its approach. If intermediate expressions in the sequence are evaluated strongly, it is likely that those that do not need to be evaluated are evaluated, so that there is no lazy effect.

实际上，书中原始实现已经足够好。原始实现和 Cy 的建议，两者对于 for-each 的运行结果也是一致的。

for-each 这种代码很常见，而

``` Scheme
(define (p2 x)
  (define (p e)
    e
    x)
  (p (set! x (cons x '(2)))))
```

这种代码本身就有点难以理解，现实中的程序是不建议这样写的。让过程参数带有副作用，本身就不好。

为了迁就本身就不够好的代码，而采用激进的方式，影响所有的序列求值效果。我认为是不值得的。
