## exercise 1.28

### Fermat's little theorem

Use Congruence symbol described in [Fermat's little theorem](./fermat_test.md). Fermat's little theorem is described as follows

If p is prime, when a < p ，there is

$$a^{p}\equiv a\pmod p$$

Let's change the formula

$$a^{p-1}\equiv 1\pmod p$$

### Miller-Rabin test

Let's say x is equal to the square root of 1 modulo

$$x^{2}\equiv 1\pmod p$$

The formula above can be converted to

$$x ^ {2} - 1 \equiv (x + 1)(x - 1)\equiv 0\pmod p$$

So there must be two solutions.

$$x \equiv 1\pmod p$$

$$x \equiv -1\pmod p$$

The derivation above does not apply to the properties of p.Whether p is prime or composite, both of these solutions must be true.So these two solutions, which is no big deal, can't be used to distinguish between the properties of p.In other words, the two solutions are trivial.


In addition to the above two solutions, depending on the properties of p, there may be other solutions to the above modular equation.These solutions can be used to distinguish properties of p, and these solutions are nontrivial.

And minus 1, in modular operations, is the same thing as p - 1.Therefore, in the range of [0, p], the trivial solution is 1 and p-1, while the non-trivial solution is any solution other than these two solutions.

当 p 为素数时，Because p is no longer separable. $(x + 1)(x - 1)\equiv 0\pmod p$ there are only two trivial solutions.But when p is composite, there are other solutions.For example, when p is 8, we have

$$3^{2} \equiv 1\pmod 8$$

$$5^{2} \equiv 1\pmod 8$$

3 and 5 are nontrivial solutions.

------

Miller-Rabin checks the deformation formula in addition to applying Fermat's little theorem

$$a^{p-1}\equiv 1\pmod p$$

The above conclusions are also applied, adding an additional check. If p is the prime number, then the equation above

$$x ^ {2} \equiv 1\pmod p$$

There must be no nontrivial solution, and if there are other solutions in the range of [0, p] besides 1 and p-1, then p is composite.

### code

``` Scheme
#lang racket

(define (square x) (* x x))

(define (nontrivial? a n)
  (and (not (= a 1))
       (not (= a (- n 1)))
       (= (remainder (square a) n) 1)))

(define (expmod base exp m)
  (cond ((= exp 0) 1)
        ((nontrivial? base m) 0)
        ((even? exp)
         (remainder (square (expmod base (/ exp 2) m))
                    m))
        (else
          (remainder (* base (expmod base (- exp 1) m))
                     m))))  

(define (fmiller-rabin-test n)
  (define (try-it a)
    (= (expmod a (- n 1) n) 1))
  (try-it (+ 1 (random (- n 1)))))

(define (fast-prime? n times)
  (cond ((= times 0) true)
        ((fmiller-rabin-test n) (fast-prime? n (- times 1)))
        (else false)))

;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
(module* test #f
  (require rackunit)
  (for-each (lambda (num)
             (check-true (fast-prime? num 100)))
           '(2 3 5 7 11 13 17 19 23))
  (for-each (lambda (num)
             (check-false (fast-prime? num 100)))
           '(36 25 9 16 4 561 1105 1729 2465))
)
```

Notice that the carmichael numbers 561, 1105, 1729, 2465 were also detected as non-prime numbers.
