## exercise 2.76

###Explicit assignment

In the explicit dispatch style, each time you add a new type, you need to write its own action function and add a new branch to the cond of each general action function.

For example, if you want to add a new complex number representation, you need to add real-part-new, imag-part-new and other operating functions of your own, and you also need to add new (new?z) branch.

Adding new operations, in addition to writing new generic operation functions, requires adding type-dependent operation functions for each type.

So whether you're adding a type, or adding a new operation, you need to change a lot.And the more types and operations there are, the more cumbersome it becomes to add new types and operations.

Explicit dispatch also requires adding prefixes or suffixes to operations of new types to prevent name collisions.We can improve on this by wrapping functions in namespace-like ways, such as

'''Scheme
(define (rectangular op)
  (define (real-part z) (car z))
  (define (imag-part z) (cdr z))
  
  (cond ((eq? op 'real-part) real-part)
        ((eq? op 'real-part) real-part)
        (else (error "Unkown op -- RECTANGULAR" op))))

((rectangular 'real-part) z)
'''

This rectangular is like a namespace, (rectangular 'real-part) can extract the corresponding function.

###data-oriented

Data-oriented, when you add a new type, you simply add the corresponding install-new-package function, writing the new type's own operations in one place.Distribution management is done through an implicit table, and no changes are made to the generic function itself.

To add a new operation, you need to add the corresponding type operation function in each package and register it in the table.But if you organize the code a little, let the new operation itself be the installation package.For example

'''Scheme
(define (install-complex-newop-package)
  (define (complex-newop-rectangular z)
    (do-using-complex-1 z))
  
  (define (complex-newop-polar z)
    (do-using-complex-2 z))
  
  (put 'complex-newop '(rectangular) complex-newop-rectangular)
  (put 'complex-newop '(polar) complex-newop-polar))

(define (complex-newop z) (apply-generic 'complex-newop z))
'''

In this way, the code is organized and the changes to add new actions are all in one place, instead of modifying the original code.

Thus, a data-oriented style, mediated by an implicit table, makes it relatively easy to add new types and new operations.


###Message passing

The messaging style, in principle, is similar to the data-oriented style, except that it is distributed differently.

Data orientation uses implicit tables and uses the information in the tables as the basis for distribution.Messaging, on the other hand, uses a dynamic function as the basis for distribution.

In simple terms, data orientation uses static data and messaging uses dynamic code.But as mentioned earlier in this chapter, the difference between data and code is subtle.

See procedural representation of order pairs, Church counts.

No implicit table for messaging, no table registration lookup, cleaner implementation.But returning relatively dynamic processes, rather than relatively static data, makes printing information and debugging more cumbersome.

To add a new type for the messaging style, you simply add a distribution function for the new type.But to add new operations, you need to add a new branch to each type of distribution function, and the more types you have, the more places you add new operations to make changes, scattered around.

Thus the style of messaging, adding new types is relatively easy and adding new operations is relatively cumbersome.


###summarize

Explicit dispatch styles, adding new types, and new operations can be cumbersome.Intuitive code, the most easy to think of.

Data-oriented style, adding new types, new operations will be relatively easy.There are implicit forms that require form registration and lookup.

Messaging style, relatively easy to add new types and relatively cumbersome to add new operations (but without the hassle of explicitly dispatching).Code implementation is cleaner than data orientation.
