## exercise 3.45

Louis had a problem with it.The previous' serialized-exchange 'is implemented as follows.

``` Scheme
(define (exchange account1 account2)
  (let ((difference (- (account1 'balance)
                       (account2 'balance))))
    ((account1 'withdraw) difference)
    ((account2 'deposit) difference)))
    
(define (serialized-exchange account1 account2)
  (let ((serializer1 (account1 'serializer))
        (serializer2 (account2 'serializer)))
    ((serializer1 (serializer2 exchange))
     account1
     account2)))
```

Note that in ` serialized-exchange` , ` serializer1 ` and ` serializer2 ` need to be serialized, respectively.Then call exchange.

Call ` (account1 'withdraw)`  in exchange.If Louis had changed it, the internal make-account would have been called

``` Scheme
(balance-serializer withdraw)
```

Similarly, ` (account2 'deposit)`  calls internal to the makeaccount

``` Scheme
(balance-serializer deposit)
```

After analyzing it.
* serializer1 in exchange is the same serializer used by (account1 'withdraw) .
* serializer2 'in exchange is the same serializer as' balance-serializer' used for (account2 'deposit).
So in exchange implementation, the following process occurs

```
Use serializer1 -> Use  serializer2 -> Use serializer1 again -> Use serializer2 again
```

According to the make-serializer implementation for the rest of this book, when you use serializer1 again, exchange will block because the same serialization is used, resulting in a deadlock.

(Exactly whether deadlock occurs depends on the implementation of mutex, as described in the digression.)

### digression

mutex is used to implement make-serializer for the rest of the book.mutex in many languages is actually subdivided into two types

* Plain mutext
* recursive_mutex

If you use ordinary mutext, mutex will be deadlocked if the same computation gets Mutex multiple times.If we use 'recursive_mutex', mutex can be acquired multiple times by the same computation without deadlock.

After Louis changes, exchange will block, resulting in a deadlock.Actually a little inaccurate, need to see the 'make-serializer' specific implementation, which used the mutex type.

However, in real world projects, it is recommended to only use ordinary mutex, and do not obtain mutex multiple times, even for the same computation process.

One thing 'recursive_mutex' has extra performance costs.

Second, if you need to use 'recursive_mutex' to avoid deadlocks, it usually indicates that the program is not designed properly.
